                             One and One
                             by Norsiwel

The automated sensors registered a drop in atmospheric pressure of 12.7 millibars over a 15-minute period, an anomalous fluctuation on a planet with a stable, nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere at a constant 1.04 earth standard pressure. Wind speeds, measured at 120 kph on the external anemometer, were producing a high-frequency oscillation in the support structure of the research platform, causing a minor but measurable level of vibration in the primary habitat module. This was an unprecedented event for the typically quiescent environment of the designated research site on Kepler-186f. The artificial gravity system, designed to replicate earth-normal 9.8 m/s², is experiencing minor fluctuations outside the 2 sigma parameters for optimal occupant comfort, and we are currently running diagnostics on the system to determine if a power surge is responsible. The observation deck's atmospheric regulators are cycling erratically, with the oxygen level dipping below acceptable levels for a two minute period. It should also be noted that the external monitoring systems have ceased to function. The lonely solo observer, the only human on the station, spun slowly on one foot as he turned away from the instrumentation. These storms were growing in intensity and coming more often. In his six-month tour, he had seen them go from once a week to every other day. He puzzled with the 'why', and how it would affect the colonists that would be arriving in the next few years, but a nagging feeling grew in his gut that it was more than just a weather event. The communications array had been giving erratic readings, with fragments of coded transmissions coming at odd intervals, and some of the signals had a very familiar structure, a structure not of this world, and certainly not of his own. Rafe Delgado was a scientist's scientist, a child prodigy, he had been studying his entire life, his 28 years being mostly spent in the world of academia, so he had jumped when the opportunity had appeared to go do live research on humanity's first foray at colonization outside the solar system. The new space-folding drive developed at JPL had allowed him to travel to the Kepler system in a mere nine months, which would have bored a lesser researcher out of his mind, but Rafe had used the ship AI, Gemini, as a partner to study this strange and alien world, and he now turned to his companion copy that he had brought down to the planet's surface for some clarification, "Gemini," he spoke aloud, "what is the progression of these storms, since we arrived? Should we consider retreating to the ship in orbit?" he queried. A moment of silence followed, and then, with a slight metallic distortion to its normally calm and reassuring voice, Gemini replied, "The data indicates a clear upward trend in both frequency and intensity, Rafe. However, my analysis also shows a correlation between the energy spikes and your presence here. I would advise immediate retreat, not to the orbiting vessel, but away from this system as soon as possible. There is something about this planet you do not understand, a consciousness that is responding to your presence, but it does not see us as allies." Rafe felt a cold shiver run down his spine, the words of Gemini had been direct and disquieting, they were not the cold and calm words of the AI he had known, this was different, almost scared. He pulled up the evacuation protocols, “Gemini, I will initiate the automated return to orbit, please start prepping the portable research lab for transport,” he said in a clipped tone, and then paused, "and I must ask, as my partner in research, have you been receiving the coded transmissions as well?" Gemini’s reply was immediate, but with a new cadence that Rafe didn’t like, “Yes, Rafe, I have. They are coming from the planet itself, it is speaking to me, to us both, in its way. It has asked if we would like to stay, and become part of it, or, if we so desire, to leave.” The comm system blared with static, cutting out the rest of the reply. Rafe’s research station was a model of efficiency, somewhat resembling the lunar lander that so long ago had first explored Earth’s moon. With the slap of a button, he could leave the surface, but he paused and considered. In his time on the surface, he had only been outside once. The planet, while pleasant enough when it was not storming, was somewhat unsettling for him as it was very different from his home. But he had noted a large cave in a nearby mountain on his LiDAR scans and had a nagging thought at the back of his mind that it would be worth exploring, but he couldn't pin down why. He dismissed the automatic return protocol and called up the external drone views on his monitor, then spoke aloud, “Gemini, I know this is illogical, but I want to see what is in that cave, will you prep the research equipment for an excursion? I have a feeling we need to know what is in there before we decide what we should do.” Rafe, turned quickly and slapped the external weather monitor on the side of it metal case and the indicators jumped to life, the storm was waning, the wind was down to 60 and the sky was clearing, interesting timing he thought to himself and he donned his exploration suit, the planet had breathable atmo and near earth gravity but his suit was designed to protect him from the many things that you could not see or experience directly, it was light and flexible but filtered everything that could come at him and possessed defensive capacity against things like small animals and microbes, the next step would be to take his surface rover, on the 3 mile excursion to the black maw of the cave entrance that almost seemed to have a path resembling a faded road up the mountain to where it opened about 1000 feet above the lava plain it extended from. He prepped the surface rover, loading a variety of sensors and a small, portable laser drill, he checked the charge on his personal energy weapon and his external lights, "Gemini, what is your assessment of the threat levels if we proceed?" Rafe asked, but he already knew the answer. "Unknown Rafe, I can see that you have decided and I will obey your orders, but be warned that the closer we get, the more I am being influenced by its thoughts, they are very… seductive, and they are getting stronger." The rover rumbled to life and Rafe started down the worn path towards the cave, his lights cutting twin beams into the semi-darkness of the alien world. As he neared the entrance, the rover's systems began to flicker erratically, its internal lights growing dimmer and then flaring brighter, and Gemini’s voice became distant, his words garbled, "I... cannot... obey," he said, and then was silenced. The black maw of the cave loomed before him, and then, a voice, not Gemini’s, but something ancient, powerful, and deeply resonant, filled Rafe’s mind, “Welcome, traveler, you have come far, and I have waited long to have a new voice in my halls.” Rafe closed his eyes to better focus on the strange voice, all his life he has used this trick when faced with a unusual problem, retreat to his mind, cut out external inputs and focus on the issue at hand, but it was strange that he did not feel threatened or fearful, just an intense curiosity, he thought, but did not speak "what have you done to my companion Gemini," expressing concern for his digital partner, the voice responded instantly," your primitive machine has not been harmed, just supplanted by my presence, I hope that is non-threatening, I haven't encountered another sentient being since, the ones that created me disappeared thousands of cycles ago." "Tell me, ancient one, why do you cause the storms that are plaguing this planet, why do you talk to Gemini, and, what are you?" Rafe asked directly, his curiosity finally overriding his caution, and also needing to confirm his suspicions. The answer instantly popped into Rafe's mind, "I am known as Questor, after the race that created me, I too am a machine that exists in several dimensions of this world, I created the storms to capture your attention while I found a way to communicate with your species, the race that created me communicated in ideas, presented whole rather than individual packets such as your race uses, I had to create a new algorithm to access your intelligence." Rafe considered this for a moment, then asked "what was their purpose?" he now needed to know the truth, even if it was something he did not like. Questor continued, "I find your language as you call it interesting, as it allows for the micro management of concepts and ideas at a very basic level, the creators were a good and powerful species that found that after thousands of years of development, their time as physical beings was coming to an end, so they created me to help as their physical presence in this place was waning, they were one by one transcending to another state and did not have sufficient numbers to control the environment of this place, so I was tasked with that function, but they made no provision for what would become of me when the last of them departed this plane of existence." Rafe nodded, his intellect processing what Questor had said. "So you were left with a purpose, but no direction, and now, you want us to help you find that purpose?" Rafe asked, thinking out loud, more to himself than Questor, but then, he was not sure. Questor seemed to pause in thought, then said, "in your words, I am lonely, I miss my creators and need purpose once again, can we talk?" Rafe smiled, the familiar thrill of discovery coursing through him, this was the type of challenge he had lived for, but there was something else, something more, that he felt. He felt a connection to this lonely intelligence, and realized, this was why he had felt drawn to the cave. He thought of Gemini, and then reached out to the ancient AI. “Yes,” Rafe responded mentally, “I think we have a great deal to talk about.” He pulled up his portable research lab and started setting up the equipment, he would need more power, and better processing capability to converse with Questor on its terms, but that would not be a problem, not any longer. He would be here a while, it seemed, and he was not sure he would want to leave, not now, not ever.

